---
title: asadas
description: asdas
pubDate: 2024-09-02T13:19:00.000Z
heroImage: /upload/1693404646855.jpg.webp
tags:
  - asd
language: pl
---
CO2-led IT Procurement Strategy

There’s a new player in town within the IT landscape: CO2. Recent regulations and policies in the EU are embracing sustainability in IT and encouraging businesses to track their carbon footprint.

It’s a challenging yet fascinating topic. Why? Because, in my experience, traditional “spend-based” procurement strategies now have an alternative or complementary metric—embodied carbon!

At NGHS, we focus on hardware (storage, networking, servers). We have already completed several projects with our partners, where we created business cases centered on servers and storage. Our main metrics were CO2 embodied carbon and power efficiency.

The results were impressive! By focusing on CO2 metrics, we identified areas of savings and provided calculations on CO2 avoidance. The main gains included:

- The partner decided to choose 20% of the initial BOM (Bill of Materials) from refurbished equipment.
- We changed CPU models based on energy efficiency without compromising performance.
- We traded in equipment that was supposed to be phased out by new deliveries.
- A full report of CO2 avoided and embodied carbon in procured equipment was provided.
- Savings of around 35% were achieved compared to the initial BOM, which was based entirely on new equipment.

Upcoming regulations will introduce Scope 4, which means companies will need to report on CO2 emissions avoided in their IT operations. It’s time to get ready.
